Have you ever had to sue for peace?
Why are you thinking of the question?
Would you please turn with me to Luke chapter 14?
I'd like to put you and me in the middle of one of Jesus' illustrations.
Jesus has been talking about what it costs to become one of his disciples.
And then, in verse 31, he says,
or, what king?
This is where we come in.
What king marching out against another king in war does not first sit down and take counsel
whether he's able with 10,000 troops to stand up to the one who comes against him with 20,000.
If, in fact, he cannot do so, then while that one is yet far away,
he sends out a body of ambassadors and sues for peace.
How do you think their conversation goes?
Now, I want peace, and these are my terms.
Hardly.
It's more like, I don't want to be your enemy.
Please, tell me what to do so that I can have peace with you.
Now, with that in mind, Jesus gives the application, verse 33.
In the same way, you may be sure that not one of you who does not say goodbye to all his belongings can be my disciple.
That is you and me.
We got to the point where we realized we did not want to be an enemy of Jehovah.
And so we were willing to sacrifice everything, belongings, career, status, everything
for the privilege of being a peace with Jehovah and a disciple of his son.
Now, for you students of Class 150, your pursuit of peace with Jehovah has led you into the special full-time service.
And what a beautiful record every one of you has set.
You remind me, in many ways, of a group in the Bible that literally sued for peace.
And their story is told in the book of Joshua, chapter 9.
That's right.
We're talking about the Gibbianites.
Do you have Joshua, chapter 9?
They had heard of all the things that Jehovah had done for his people Israel and to his enemies.
They did not want to be Jehovah's enemy.
And so they did exactly what the King and Jesus illustration did.
They sent a body of ambassadors.
So Joshua, chapter 9.
And this is the opening overture in verse 6.
We have come from a distant land.
Now, make a covenant with us.
When they didn't get a very warm initial reception, they persisted, verse 8.
We are your servants.
In other words, set the terms.
We want peace.
They were willing to sacrifice everything in order to enjoy peace with Israel and with Israel's God.
Now, Joshua and the Chieftains didn't see it exactly the same way, particularly when they found out that they were not from a distant land as they had claimed.
Nobody likes to be fooled.
So the tone got a little stoner.
Let's turn, look at verse 23.
This is what they said.
From now on, you are cursed and you will always occupy a slave's position as gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.
What will it give me and I say to that?
25.
We are at your mercy due to us whatever you think is good and bright.
And just so, the terms of peace were set, verse 27.
That day, Joshua made them gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the assembly and for Jehovah's altar at the place that he should choose and they remain so to this day.
So now, a few questions, a few lessons.
What do you think of the Ghiblianites assignment?
It was presented to them as a punishment.
But just think.
There would have been sold off as household slaves.
Their humble service would directly contribute to pure worship and support Jehovah's people.
That's a privilege, isn't it?
I mean, that's the kind of service we reach out for as a privilege.
Now, the kind of service.
Was it because they were lowly people?
No skills to do anything else that they were given this kind of job.
Well, look at chapter 10 and verse 2.
Kind of people, the Ghiblianites were.
Ghiblian was a great city like one of the royal cities.
It was greater than AI and all its men were warriors.
Capable, skilled people.
However, clearly the Ghiblianites realized that if their army was no match for Israel,
then Jehovah didn't need them to bolster his army in order to complete the conquest.
It was better for them to ask Jehovah what he wanted them to do and to do that.
So the sacrifice was definitely worth it.
Does that mean, though, that their skills were irrelevant, never even considered?
Oh, no.
But for example, a few hundred years later,
Ishmaja the Ghiblianite is listed among David's 30 mighty men.
Different needs, calls for different skills.
What did Ishmaja do with his skill?
Well, he humbly defended pure worship and Jehovah's people.
So the details of the assignment were different,
but the focus was about the same.
Another question.
Was this just a short term starter assignment?
Yeah, we'll do this for now, but once the campaign is over,
we'll be able to resume our regular place in society.
Well, back to verse 27 of chapter 9.
Remember what Joshua said at this point when he gave them their assignment?
They remain so to this day.
Not only to the day that Joshua wrote these words,
about 900 years later,
among the exiles that returned from Babylon to Jerusalem to restore pure worship,
were temple servants.
And likely, this included descendants of the Ghiblianites.
Just think these temple servants, once again,
were willing to leave behind the life that they'd built up
to make the track and be half of pure worship and take up their duties.
They must have really cherished their assignment
in order to stick to it that way.
So as we've talked about them, have you been noting some personal lessons?
These are the four that come to my mind.
Number one, as with the King in Jesus' illustration and the Ghiblianites,
peace with Jehovah is such a treasure.
We're willing to sacrifice anything to enjoy it.
Number two, Jehovah's terms for us include humble service
on behalf of pure worship and in support of his people.
And that kind of humble service we view as the greatest privilege.
Number three, different needs call for different skills.
And that may lead to a change of assignment for you or for someone else.
Either way, we don't compete, we don't compare.
The details of the assignment may be different,
but the focus or goal is always the same.
And the fourth one, we cherish our assignment.
We're going to stay in it as long as Jehovah allows.
In short, we cherish our assignment.
We love our God.
Peace with Jehovah is a treasure that we will never let go.